Hubbard's journey of self-discovery took
him to England in 1894 despite past
failures at writing
he went to research an idea for a series
of short stories he was calling little
journeys there he experienced the
reformist ideals of arts and crafts and
saw for the first time the handcrafted
books of William Morris's Kelmscott
press Hubbard would never be the same
the whole idea of the book as a as an
art object as an object that you would
have in your home as something important
for its object missed it's content that
is a very Elbert Hubbard saying
Hubbard must have identified very
personally with what Morris was doing
with the Kelmscott press because that's
what he started out wanting to do was
was make books so I think he aspired to
what Morris was doing William Morris was
an artist poet and socialist he was a
driving force in a reformist movement in
England it began as a convulsive
reaction to the numbing effects of
modern industrial society it gave rise
to a new aesthetic anchored by the
ideals of simple form honest
craftsmanship and harmony with the
environment it was called Arts and
Crafts and it influenced everything from
simple decorative arts to architecture
they were trying to protest against the
Industrial Revolution where everybody
was losing the hand work that was
involved in the artistry that's involved
in making things the whole feeling the
whole philosophy was getting back to the
artist type work getting back to doing
things with your hand being honest every
piece that you're making you're
producing with your head your heart in
your hands
the Japanese say that to be handcrafted
is to have a bit of the human in there
they were a more valued work because
they had that hand quality the fact that
somebody took time to do it by hand and
it wasn't a mass-produced item I like to
think that some of the soul of the
people go into that work
William Morris once said I do not want
art for a few any more than education
for a few or freedom for a few his
sublime ideal was that arts and crafts
would be accessible to everyone but the
high cost of his handmade products made
it an impossible dream William Morris
was a socialist but at the same time he
made luxury goods because he was such a
purist about how his his products were
made everything was made by hand so his
clients were very wealthy people often
royalty and this upset him quite a bit
they never really were able to achieve
in any great sweeping way affordable
well-crafted goods of the caliber they
wanted to produce for the average person
in England that's just something that
slipped away from their fingers time and
again but the sublime ideals of arts and
crafts were about to come face to face
with the practical model of American
business
you